Improve guide for development with CLion (#5743)
godotengine/godot-docs: development/cpp/configuring_an_ide/clion.rst

CLion
=====

> `CLion <https://www.jetbrains.com/clion/>`_ is a commercial 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`CLion <https://www.jetbrains.com/clion/>`_ is a commercial
```

`JetBrains <https://www.jetbrains.com/>`_ IDE for C++.

Importing the project

> ---------------------------------------------------

Reviewer: reStructuredText **requires** titles underlines to be the same length as the titles themselves:

```suggestion
---------------------
```

> CLion can import projects `compilation database file <https://clang.llvm.org/docs/JSONCompilationDatabase.html>`, commonly named `compile_commands.json`. To generate the compilation database file, open the terminal, change into the Godot root directory, and execute:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CLion can import a project's `compilation database file <https://clang.llvm.org/docs/JSONCompilationDatabase.html>`, commonly named `compile_commands.json`. To generate the compilation database file, open the terminal, change to the Godot root directory, and run:
```

::

    $ scons compiledb

> Then, open the Godot root directory with CLion. CLion will import the compilation database, index the codebase, and provide auto-completion and other advanced code navigation and refactoring functionality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, open the Godot root directory with CLion. CLion will import the compilation database, index the codebase, and provide autocompletion and other advanced code navigation and refactoring functionality.
```

Compiling and debugging the project
-----------------------------------

CLion does not support compiling and debugging Godot via SCons out of the box. This can be achived by creating a custom build target and run configuration in CLion. Before creating a custom build target, you must `compile Godot <https://docs.godotengine.org/en/stable/development/compiling/index.html>`__ once on the command line, to generate the Godot executable. Open the terminal, change into the Godot root directory, and execute:

::

    $ scons target=debug

> To add a customer build target that invokes SCons for compilation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add a custom build target that invokes SCons for compilation:
```

> - Open CLion, and navigate to ``Preferences > Build, Execution, Deployment > Custom Build Targets``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Open CLion and navigate to **Preferences > Build, Execution, Deployment > Custom Build Targets**
```

.. figure:: img/clion-preferences.png
   :align: center

> - Click ``Add target`` and give the target a name, e.g. ``Godot debug``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Click **Add target** and give the target a name, e.g. ``Godot debug``.
```

.. figure:: img/clion-target.png
   :align: center

> - Click ``...`` next to the `Build:` selectbox, then click the ``+`` button in the ``External Tools`` dialog to add a new external tool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Click **...** next to the **Build:** selectbox, then click the **+** button in the **External Tools** dialog to add a new external tool.
```

.. figure:: img/clion-external-tools.png
   :align: center

> - Give the tool a name, e.g. ``Build Godot debug``, set ``Program`` to ``scons``, set ``Arguments`` to the compilation settings you want (see `Compiling Godot <https://docs.godotengine.org/en/stable/development/compiling/index.html>`__), and set the ``Working directory`` to ``$ProjectFileDir$``, which equals the Godot root directory. Click ``OK`` to create the tool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Give the tool a name, e.g. ``Build Godot debug``, set **Program** to ``scons``, set **Arguments** to the compilation settings you want (see :ref:`toc-devel-compiling`), and set the **Working directory** to ``$ProjectFileDir$``, which equals the Godot root directory. Click **OK** to create the tool.
```

.. figure:: img/clion-create-build-tool.png
   :align: center

> - Back in the ``External Tools`` dialog, click the ``+`` again to add a second external tool for cleaning the Godot build via ``Scons``. Give the tool a name, e.g. ``Clean Godot debug``, set ``Program`` to ``scons``, set ``Arguments`` to ``-c`` (which will clean the build), and set the ``Working directory`` to ``$ProjectFileDir$``. Click ``OK`` to create the tool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Back in the **External Tools** dialog, click the **+** again to add a second external tool for cleaning the Godot build via SCons. Give the tool a name, e.g. ``Clean Godot debug``, set **Program** to ``scons``, set **Arguments** to ``-c`` (which will clean the build), and set the **Working directory** to ``$ProjectFileDir$``. Click **OK** to create the tool.
```

.. figure:: img/clion-create-clean-tool.png
   :align: center

> - Close the ``External Tools`` dialog. In the ``Custom Build Target`` dialog for the custom ``Godot debug`` build target, select the ``Build Godot debug`` tool from the ``Build`` select box, and select the ``Clean Godot debug`` tool from the ``Clean`` select box. Click ``OK`` to create the custom build target.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Close the **External Tools** dialog. In the **Custom Build Target** dialog for the custom ``Godot debug`` build target, select the **Build Godot debug** tool from the **Build** select box, and select the **Clean Godot debug** tool from the **Clean** select box. Click **OK** to create the custom build target.
```

.. figure:: img/clion-select-tools.png
   :align: center

> - In the main IDE window, click ``Add Configuration``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- In the main IDE window, click **Add Configuration**.
```

.. figure:: img/clion-add-configuration.png
   :align: center

> - In the ``Run/Debug Configuration`` dialog, click ``Add new...``, then select ``Custom Build Application`` to create a new custom run/debug configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- In the **Run/Debug Configuration** dialog, click **Add new...**, then select **Custom Build Application** to create a new custom run/debug configuration.
```

.. figure:: img/clion-add-custom-build-application.png
   :align: center

> - Give the run/debug configuration a name, e.g. ``Godot debug``, select the ``Godot debug`` custom build target as the ``Target``, select the Godot executable in the ``bin/`` folder as the ``Executable``, and set the ``Program arguments`` to ``--editor --path path-to-your-project/``, where ``path-to-your-project/`` should be a path pointing to an existing Godot project. If you omit the ``--path`` argument, you will only be able to debug the Godot project manager window. Click ``OK`` to create the run/debug configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Give the run/debug configuration a name, e.g. ``Godot debug``, select the ``Godot debug`` custom build target as the **Target**. Select the Godot executable in the ``bin/`` folder as the **Executable**, and set the **Program arguments** to ``--editor --path path-to-your-project/``, where ``path-to-your-project/`` should be a path pointing to an existing Godot project. If you omit the ``--path`` argument, you will only be able to debug the Godot project manager window. Click **OK** to create the run/debug configuration.
```

.. figure:: img/clion-run-configuration.png
   :align: center

You can now build, run, debug, profile, and Valgrind check the Godot editor via the run configuration.

.. figure:: img/clion-build-run.png
   :align: center

> When playing a scene, the Godot editor will spawn a separate process. You can debug this process in CLion by going to ``Run > Attach to process...``, typing ``godot``, and selecting the Godot process with the highest ``pid``, which will usually be the player window.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When playing a scene, the Godot editor will spawn a separate process. You can debug this process in CLion by going to **Run > Attach to process...**, typing ``godot``, and selecting the Godot process with the highest **pid** (process ID), which will usually be the running project.
```

Importing the project
---------------------

CLion can import a project's `compilation database file <https://clang.llvm.org/docs/JSONCompilationDatabase.html>`, commonly named `compile_commands.json`. To generate the compilation database file, open the terminal, change to the Godot root directory, and run:

::

>     $ scons compiledb

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    $ scons compiledb=yes
```

Then, open the Godot root directory with CLion. CLion will import the compilation database, index the codebase, and provide autocompletion and other advanced code navigation and refactoring functionality.

Compiling and debugging the project
-----------------------------------

CLion does not support compiling and debugging Godot via SCons out of the box. This can be achived by creating a custom build target and run configuration in CLion. Before creating a custom build target, you must `compile Godot <https://docs.godotengine.org/en/stable/development/compiling/index.html>`__ once on the command line, to generate the Godot executable. Open the terminal, change into the Godot root directory, and execute:

::

>     $ scons target=debug

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    scons
```

.. figure:: img/clion-select-tools.png
   :align: center

- In the main IDE window, click **Add Configuration**.

.. figure:: img/clion-add-configuration.png
   :align: center

- In the **Run/Debug Configuration** dialog, click **Add new...**, then select **Custom Build Application** to create a new custom run/debug configuration.

.. figure:: img/clion-add-custom-build-application.png
   :align: center

- Give the run/debug configuration a name, e.g. ``Godot debug``, select the ``Godot debug`` custom build target as the **Target**. Select the Godot executable in the ``bin/`` folder as the **Executable**, and set the **Program arguments** to ``--editor --path path-to-your-project/``, where ``path-to-your-project/`` should be a path pointing to an existing Godot project. If you omit the ``--path`` argument, you will only be able to debug the Godot project manager window. Click **OK** to create the run/debug configuration.

.. figure:: img/clion-run-configuration.png
   :align: center

You can now build, run, debug, profile, and Valgrind check the Godot editor via the run configuration.

.. figure:: img/clion-build-run.png
   :align: center

> When playing a scene, the Godot editor will spawn a separate process. You can debug this process in CLion by going to **Run > Attach to process...**, typing ``godot``, and selecting the Godot process with the highest **pid** (process ID), which will usually be the running project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When playing a scene, the Godot editor will spawn a separate process. You can debug this process in CLion by going to **Run > Attach to process...**, typing ``godot``, and selecting the Godot process with the highest **pid** (process ID), which will usually be the running project.

```

Importing the project
---------------------

> CLion can import a project's `compilation database file <https://clang.llvm.org/docs/JSONCompilationDatabase.html>`, commonly named `compile_commands.json`. To generate the compilation database file, open the terminal, change to the Godot root directory, and run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CLion can import a project's `compilation database file <https://clang.llvm.org/docs/JSONCompilationDatabase.html>`, commonly named `compile_commands.json`__. To generate the compilation database file, open the terminal, change to the Godot root directory, and run:
```

::

    scons compiledb=yes

Then, open the Godot root directory with CLion. CLion will import the compilation database, index the codebase, and provide autocompletion and other advanced code navigation and refactoring functionality.

Compiling and debugging the project
-----------------------------------

CLion does not support compiling and debugging Godot via SCons out of the box. This can be achived by creating a custom build target and run configuration in CLion. Before creating a custom build target, you must `compile Godot <https://docs.godotengine.org/en/stable/development/compiling/index.html>`__ once on the command line, to generate the Godot executable. Open the terminal, change into the Godot root directory, and execute:

> ::
> 
>     scons
> 
> 
> To add a custom build target that invokes SCons for compilation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
::

    scons

To add a custom build target that invokes SCons for compilation:
```
